---
ID: 359
post_title: Cringe…
author: mavenbuilddesign
post_excerpt: 'Being online can be a bittersweet experience. As a mom of teenagers and a business person who uses Social Media to keep on top of pop culture, check what my kids are being exposed to or to communicate with industry colleagues, I often see many things that are both inspiring and unnerving.&nbsp; The unnerving would &hellip; <p><a href="https://create.twu.ca/mavenbuilddesign/2017/09/18/cringe/">Continue reading<span> "Cringe&hellip;"</span></a></p>'
layout: post
permalink: >
  https://create.twu.ca/orientation/cringe/
published: true
post_date: 2017-09-18 12:03:57
---
<p>Being online can be a bittersweet experience. As a mom of teenagers and a business person who uses Social Media to keep on top of pop culture, check what my kids are being exposed to or to communicate with industry colleagues, I often see many things that are both inspiring and unnerving.&nbsp;</p>
<p>The unnerving would involve what I call &#8220;cringe&#8221;. Random, laissez &nbsp;faire, &nbsp;off the cuff posts/comments that posters or commenters make without a thought toward audience. Inflammatory comments or posts that you know are going to poke the bear. The really terrible ones don&#8217;t happen that often but when they do, you can hear a pin drop&#8230;for about 2 minutes. During that two minutes you can almost see viewers deciding to participate in the crazy back and forth or to simply sit back and watch.</p>
<p>I witnessed a post that had to do with a contentious political candidate that was not well liked and a button pusher. His platform was alienating and a &#8220;friend&#8221; on a particular Social Media platform decided to cheerfully display their support for this candidate by posting a happy picture of themselves wearing a slogan cap &nbsp;and adding a cute comment about how good the hat looked. Needless to say, I believe the back and forth comments ended at about the 87 mark. The poster held their own and stood by their post (which is the key when you click &#8220;post&#8221;) but who knows what that poster felt behind closed doors and offline.&nbsp;</p>
<p>My personal philosophy for Social Media is simple. Its the same thing I tell my kids about posting online or texting. Keep the emotion out of it and use your manners. You wouldn&#8217;t bring up contentious money or political issues at a dinner party, so keep Social Media social. Stay friendly and if you want a real conversation, do it face to face.</p>