---
ID: 2258
post_title: Finding U
author: brittniarthur
post_excerpt: 'Brittni Arthur works with Youth With A Mission (YWAM) in Vancouver. She has been involved with YWAM since 2008. Brittni loves working with youth and has her diploma in Youth Work from Columbia Bible College. She works as the Youth... <a href="https://create.twu.ca/brittniarthur/2018/09/finding-u/">Continue Reading &rarr;</a>'
layout: post
permalink: >
  https://create.twu.ca/brittniarthur/2018/09/finding-u/
published: true
post_date: 2018-09-02 21:28:27
---
Brittni Arthur works with Youth With A Mission (YWAM) in Vancouver. She has been involved with YWAM since 2008. Brittni loves working with youth and has her diploma in Youth Work from Columbia Bible College. She works as the Youth Department Director of YWAM Vancouver. As the Youth Department Director she leads two ministries: Mission Adventures and Reclaim. Working with YWAM means that Brittni has to raise her own financial support to do what she does. This was a challenge for her a few years ago when her house was broken into and she didn&#8217;t have tenants insurance.

Beyond working with youth Brittni also loves cities and is passionate about coffee. She is planning to get her Master of Arts in Leadership from Trinity Western University.

<hr />

Most of what I found when I searched my name was accurate and definitely reflected who I am and what I believe. The benefit for me is that my name is spelled unique. I have never met another Brittni, with the same spelling.

Most of what I found about myself was related to my work with YWAM. When I started working with YWAM I tightened up my social media privacy and I purged a lot of my online content. One thing I purged when I first joined staff were my pictures. Being in full time ministry means I have to be aware of how my presence online can be perceived. As an example, if there were a photo of me posted with alcohol in it, it could look to supporters like I am wasting their money spending it all on alcohol, even if when the photo was taking I wasn&#8217;t consuming any. There are many things in pictures that people can assume and I have to think about that before I put any content online. Before I was in full time ministry I didn&#8217;t have to think this way, so when I joined full time ministry I did a purge.

As I continued in full time ministry I definitely relate to Bonnie&#8217;s proposed &#8220;Neo-Liberal, Branded Self&#8221;. Although I have never tried to monetize my online presence, in some ways I have had to brand myself as I am in full time ministry. My general response to this has been to maintain a minimal online presence. I definitely had more of an online presence in my earlier years, but as I stepped into more leadership I found that I had more important things in front of me to do than figure out the perfect thing to post on Facebook. I definitely haven&#8217;t found this damaging to my ministry and therefore have continued in this way.

As Kris put it on his Digital Minimalism blog post, &#8220;In the age of online harassment, fake news, propaganda, and <a href="http://www.digitalpedagogylab.com/hybridped/truthy-lies-surreal-truths/" >mass digital deception</a>, it is more important than ever to be deliberate about our public digital identity.&#8221; I think being in full time ministry somehow helped me be more aware of this than many of my peers. I&#8217;m not sure exactly how I became aware of digital minimalism, because I don&#8217;t recall anyone every teaching me, I just remember being told that I should be careful what I posted online.

I think that digital minimalism is about so much more than simply our &#8220;public digital identity&#8221;. It is also about how we spend our time online digitally. Again, as Kris said on his Digital Minimalism blog post, &#8220;They&#8217;re [thoughtful minimalists] instead being <em>deliberate </em>about life decisions, orienting their possessions, homes, and habits around core needs and passions.&#8221; This is something that I have tried to do more and more. Often I have failed, but I think it is sound advice. This is the reason I never got Pintrest. I have had multiple friends tell me I would love it, and I know that is true, which is why I haven&#8217;t made an account; I would waste so much time browsing Pintrest. We only have so much time in the day. In the world we live in it is common to hear people say, &#8220;I don&#8217;t have time.&#8221; I used to work with a guy who talked about how we all have time, it&#8217;s just a matter of how we choose to prioritize it. This couldn&#8217;t be more true. We all have time, but we choose to prioritize it doing certain things and not other things. Digital minimalism is about being deliberate with how we spend our digital time as well as being deliberate about the online profile we build for ourselves.