---
ID: 1241
post_title: Introduction
author: drchristianklaue
post_excerpt: 'Hi! My name is Dr. Christian Klaue and I am looking forward to becoming involved in the Masters in Leadership program at TWU. Family Background &ndash; My wife, Joy, and I currently live in Saskatoon, Saskatchewan. I have four children: Liesl, Monika, Rudy, and Nadia. Liesl graduated from UBC and is currently working in Langley, &hellip; <a href="https://lessons4leaders.wordpress.com/2018/03/12/introduction/">Continue reading <span>Introduction</span></a>'
layout: post
permalink: >
  https://lessons4leaders.wordpress.com/2018/03/12/introduction/
published: true
post_date: 2018-03-12 20:43:13
---
<p>Hi! My name is Dr. Christian Klaue and I am looking forward to becoming involved in the Masters in Leadership program at TWU.</p>
<p>Family Background &#8211; My wife, Joy, and I currently live in Saskatoon, Saskatchewan. I have four children: Liesl, Monika, Rudy, and Nadia. Liesl graduated from UBC and is currently working in Langley, BC. Monika is married to Nate and they are currently touring New Zealand and will be moving to England to work on their M.Ed soon. Rudy is currently a student at UBC and Nadia is a student at TWU.</p>
<p>Spiritual Background &#8211; I grew up in a Christian home and attended church regularly with my parents. I was saved at a Billy Graham crusade in Vancouver and was baptized shortly thereafter in my parents church. Over the next number of years, I attended various churches. When my wife and I moved to Williams Lake, I was asked to take on the role of Associate Pastor as well as principal of their Christian school. After several years, I was ordained as a Minister of the Gospel with the Evangelical Free Church of Canada. I have been involved as an associate pastor as well as an interim pastor with the Evangelical Free Church in two different towns in BC. We currently attend Fairhaven Bible Chapel, a church associated with the Plymouth Brethren.</p>
<p>Academic Background &#8211; I have been involved in Christian Education as a principal for over 22 years. For many years I was a teaching principal in various schools in BC, having taught most grades and subjects from grades 4-12 (I never did teach grade 6 though). My favourite subjects have been grade 10-12 English and Bible. For me those two courses are almost different aspects of the same course; my students had their Bible open in English class almost as often as in Bible class. In the summer of 2017, my wife and I moved to Saskatoon so that I could take up my new position as principal of Saskatoon Christian School. My wife also teaches in Saskatoon; this year she has a 4/5 split class.</p>
<p>Educational Background &#8211; I graduated high school in greater Los Angeles and came back to British Columbia to study history at UBC. Since I enjoyed several teaching area, I decided to also get a minor in English and German. After being a teacher on call for several years, I took on a principal position at a church-based independent school. After several years I realized I needed to further my education. In 2000, I graduated from George Fox University with a Masters in Education with a focus on Education Leadership. In 2017, I graduated from Northcentral University with an Educational Doctorate (Ed.D) in Educational Leadership. My dissertation title was <em>Examining How Boy-Friendly 8-12 ACSIWC Schools Are: A Case Study</em>.</p>
<p>Employment Background &#8211; After I graduated from UBC (and later SFU for my teacher training), I ended up working as a teacher on call for two different public school districts. That was not enough work to provide for my family, so I sought work in the Recreational Vehicle industry. I worked in that industry for 2.5 years before accepting the position of principal at a small Christian school in Greater Vancouver. I worked there for 8 years before moving to the Williams Lake area in central British Columbia. I was both principal of the Christian school as well as associate pastor of the sponsoring church for 10 years. I then accepted a position as principal of a Christian school in Campbell River, where I served for 4 years. I am now in my first year at Saskatoon Christian School.</p>
<p>&nbsp;</p>