---
ID: 2320
post_title: Blogging….
author: principalmorrow
post_excerpt: 'While the idea of developing a blog is not high on my list of go to activities, it has been interesting to be exposed to the elements of WordPress.&nbsp; Developing systems for organizing time,&nbsp; and information at the outset of... <a href="https://create.twu.ca/principalmorrow/2018/09/08/blogging/">Continue Reading &rarr;</a>'
layout: post
permalink: >
  https://create.twu.ca/principalmorrow/2018/09/08/blogging/
published: true
post_date: 2018-09-08 11:59:17
---
While the idea of developing a blog is not high on my list of go to activities, it has been interesting to be exposed to the elements of WordPress.  Developing systems for organizing time,  and information at the outset of this leadership program is certainly going to be beneficial.

Some of the challenges that are I currently have as I consider the structure of the blog lie around limited skill set and not knowing what is ahead.  Neither of these things can be solved in the short term and it has been beneficial to see other blog examples to look for possible structures.  I know that as I practice and as this course and the next ones unfold, the structural requirements will become more clear and I may need to make adjustments to the structure to improve the function.

I have decided to create a few pages that will provided a home for some of the areas that I expect to learn about along the way: a place to collect online tool links that may be useful in the future, a place to collect valuable quotations, information about myself, life outside of school and the main blog page.

As it has been suggested, using categories as a  means to sort blog posts seems to be the most functional way to  and organize posts. I am realizing the static nature of the pages and how they are to be used and how that is contrasted by the more fluid nature of the blog post stream.

I have appreciated following the blog of an American colleague over time to help with my understanding of how a blog can be well used.

&nbsp;