---
ID: 2021
post_title: Follow the Leader
author: achsahs-springs
post_excerpt: 'Moving to Saskatchewan in 2007 we knew nothing about politics.&nbsp; Within months of arriving there was a provincial election and the Saskatchewan Party was in power with Premier Brad Wall at the helm.&nbsp; Over the course of the last 10 years Premier Brad Wall has become a name that is recognized across Canada.&nbsp; Although no [&hellip;]'
layout: post
permalink: >
  https://create.twu.ca/achsahs-springs/2018/05/06/follow-the-leader/
published: true
post_date: 2018-05-06 16:55:37
---
Moving to Saskatchewan in 2007 we knew nothing about politics.  Within months of arriving there was a provincial election and the Saskatchewan Party was in power with Premier Brad Wall at the helm.  Over the course of the last 10 years Premier Brad Wall has become a name that is recognized across Canada.  Although no longer a leader in politics since his retirement earlier this year, a number of his social media followers continue to comment on his page that he should be going into federal politics, and responses to his posts would strongly indicate that he is still perceived as an opinion leader in this country.

I am not a high user of social media, and have only just recently signed up on Twitter.  I do now follow Mr. Brad Wall on Twitter, <a href="https://twitter.com/BradWall306?lang=en">https://twitter.com/BradWall306?lang=en</a>  but have followed him much longer on Facebook.  <a href="https://www.facebook.com/BradWall306/">https://www.facebook.com/BradWall306/</a>

The most significant ideas that Brad Wall is espousing right now is his opposition to the federal carbon tax, perhaps the controversial issue that he is most well-known for, and his support of the Keystone XL and Transmountain pipeline.  The ideas and opinions that Mr. Wall has regarding these two topics are far removed from my day to day life.  However, the concepts, the information, and the knowledge he shares resonates with me because the foundation of his argument is grounded in what is in the best interest of his province and his constituents.  Despite opposition from other leaders both federally and provincially he has not changed his stance.  Even though he is no longer in politics, he continues to be invited for interviews to discuss his views on this topic because his knowledge and opinion remains respected.  And he continues to be vocal with information, facts and opinions on these topics as a member of the public because he is passionate about what is best for his province, his neighbours, and Western Canada.  And I believe this truly is his motivation, as do many of his followers, because his government consistently demonstrated a commitment to what is best for the people and province of Saskatchewan.

The second idea Premier Wall has espoused throughout his terms in office and continues to espouse even after his retirement is fiscal responsibility.  The downturn in oil prices affected Saskatchewan as profoundly as other Western provinces.  During the same years potash revenue decreased, and the agricultural market saw poor yields and quality.  When it became evident that hard decisions would need to be made to balance the budget Premier Wall did not shy away from making those decisions, even though the resultant actions dictated that his political popularity would decrease as a result.  Another decision made while in office was the move to a single provincial health authority.  This decision was made in part due to public and patient/family advocacy, but it was also made in an effort to ensure that publically funded health care can be sustainable into the future by decreasing spending in the one area that costs the most for taxpayers in the province.  Although this decision may yet still negatively impact me personally with a possible loss of employment, I understand the rationale and respect this dedication to ensure that the province is not only financially secure in the present but also for future generations.

As stated earlier I would not be considered a high use consumer of social media so I struggle to provide advice to Mr. Wall on how to use his social media presence more effectively.  As I am a public servant I also understand how communications in the public sector works, so I am somewhat skeptical that any advice that I offer would reach him directly.  However, I do know what is working:  posts that stick to the facts and provide information and knowledge are respected and cannot be disputed.  Posts that reveal his human side are engaging and elevate his status as a leader.  Posts that celebrate the successes of others, posts that mourn with those in tragedy, posts that poke fun at his fellow politicians, posts that publically show the pride that he has in his family help the public identify with him as a person, which positively impacts his influence as a leader.  The only possible suggestion that I could offer is to ensure that posts that reference other politicians or parties are not too inflammatory or abbreviated.  I have never seen Mr. Wall post anything that was openly disrespectful or derogatory towards any one person, but I have seen some content that had the potential to be offensive, and some content that was so oversimplified that it could have been construed as “fake news” because the information needed to understand the topic was not evident.

The first time I became keenly aware that Premier Wall was a leader with values and principles that I could identify with was the first year I viewed his Christmas message to the people of Saskatchewan.  In an era of political correctness it was evident that this was a man who was committed to serving others no matter what their views, but was also not afraid to share his personal beliefs and convictions.  I was in awe of his courage, his boldness, and the unashamed declaration of his personal faith to a secular audience that may or may not respect him as a leader because of that message.  Mr. Wall has demonstrated in both word and deed that he has never forgotten the reason why he was elected, and that was to serve the people of Saskatchewan.  Mr. Wall has eloquently expressed that he has considered his years of leadership as an honour and a privilege and not a right or entitlement.  He has been able to articulate respectfully when his views are in opposition to others and remain steadfast to his position when necessary.  Yet, he has also demonstrated that he is humble and transparent enough to change his stance and reverse decisions he/his government has made if it is determined that it is truly not in the best interest of the Saskatchewan people.  He has been real, and honest, and strong enough to allow the public to watch him grow as a leader, and so, mentored many aspiring leaders that he has never met.  I am grateful to be one of that number.