---
ID: 1595
post_title: Audio 1
author: drchristianklaue
post_excerpt: 'This is my first attempt at creating a podcast. I have been challenged to do so in the past but have always put it off until now. The main reason I have put it off is that once I start, I feel like I need to keep it going. I am already trying to keep &hellip; <a href="https://lessons4leaders.wordpress.com/2018/04/05/audio-1/">Continue reading <span>Audio 1</span></a>'
layout: post
permalink: >
  https://lessons4leaders.wordpress.com/2018/04/05/audio-1/
published: true
post_date: 2018-04-05 15:23:01
---
This is my first attempt at creating a podcast. I have been challenged to do so in the past but have always put it off until now. The main reason I have put it off is that once I start, I feel like I need to keep it going. I am already trying to keep three blogs going on a weekly basis and adding a podcast seems to be a little too much at this time. However, that may now end.

I have signed up for both Anchor.fm and Sound Cloud (I have seen and used Sound Cloud in the past). I know that adding a Sound Cloud audio clip should be easy as it just means adding the URL to my blog. This is my Sound Cloud comment.

<iframe width="100%" height="300" scrolling="no" frameborder="no" src="https://w.soundcloud.com/player/?url=https%3A%2F%2Fapi.soundcloud.com%2Ftracks%2F425400837%3Fsecret_token%3Ds-6JVHf&color=%23ff5500&amp%3Bauto_play=false&amp%3Bhide_related=false&amp%3Bshow_comments=true&amp%3Bshow_user=true&amp%3Bshow_reposts=false&amp%3Bshow_teaser=true&amp%3Bvisual=true"></iframe>

I also tried to add an Anchor.fm sound bite, but could not as I am still using the free version of WordPress. I can only add sound clips if I upgrade. At this stage, I&#8217;m not sure I want to do that.

Both apps were easy to use; however, I can myself using each one a little differently. There are times I give presentations, and using Anchor.fm to record and then publish those as podcasts makes sense. Even though I can do the same with Sound Cloud, I can also see myself adding music that I&#8217;ve created or recorded myself. For example, I have several recordings of waterfalls and ice breaking apart that would be interesting to incorporate into a presentation.

The Anchor.fm app just requires that I download the file before adding it to WordPress. Sound Cloud allows me to embed the actual URL. In all, both apps are easy to use in terms of adding sound to a post.