---
ID: 2276
post_title: Narrating U
author: Matt Squirell
post_excerpt: 'My experience narrating/modifying my personal WordPress site was analogous to piloting a boat with the throttle engaged at full speed, yet struggling to achieve the desirable efficiency up on a plane. Once I achieved a better level of navigational understanding, the bow trimmed up and the boat began planing nicely. As it relates to comprehension, &hellip; <p><a href="https://create.twu.ca/fourwinds/2018/09/05/narrating-u/">Continue reading<span> "Narrating U"</span></a></p>'
layout: post
permalink: >
  https://create.twu.ca/fourwinds/2018/09/05/narrating-u/
published: true
post_date: 2018-09-05 15:02:49
---
My experience narrating/modifying my personal WordPress site was analogous to piloting a boat with the throttle engaged at full speed, yet struggling to achieve the desirable efficiency up on a plane. Once I achieved a better level of navigational understanding, the bow trimmed up and the boat began planing nicely. As it relates to comprehension, I suppose my only main challenge surrounded bridging the instruction terminology with the intent of the task. As a matter of working through the understanding, I had some difficultly really grasping what I was trying to accomplish. In reflection, once I determined that I was simply building my own electronic presence, such as a website, the sequencing began to naturally fall into place.

I worked through my challenges via trial and error. Essentially I pivoted between the online learning instructions, my own site dashboard, and the menu video instructions. Once I connected one process with another, it became much easier to understand the functionality of the menu and category tools. Once I was up and running, it became enjoyable spending more time tweaking the site to align with my own personal needs and wants.

The next time I encounter similar tasks building, processing and sequencing, I will spend more time drafting out an architecture on paper of what I am expected to accomplish. It was by this means in which I used to assemble my menu, sub-menus and categories. Additionally, depending on the personal network developed over the course of the MA program, I would not hesitate in contacting others in the cohort to help field issues that I may be having.

Matt

&nbsp;